# Development Model

My SAT idea involves developing a browser extension that allows users to alter the appearance of SEQTA Learn. Users will be able to change colour schemes and import images to be used as backgrounds. The navigational menu on the left hand side may also be changed. Users will have access to a menu that allows them to put values such as hex colour codes that the program will then read and apply to the web page. This menu should be easy to navigate and use for the user. The design aspect for this project would mostly apply to the menu part, as the actual design of the web page is left up to the user. User defined values will be stored locally on the user computer so that the program can refer to them again later on. The program will also ensure that the correct data type (such as hex codes) will be stored in these files. During development, several prototype versions may be released before the full version. The prototype versions may be released to a small group of users that will test the program and give feedback. This will allow for improvements to be made that will contribute to the final version and also provide some information for the evaluation of the program.

The waterfall model emphasises on linear progress when developing a software solution. It is a model that is simple but requires all aspects of the solution to be planned out beforehand. The waterfall model is not easy to alter, so it is not as flexible as the other models. But its linear aspect makes it more simple and easy to work with than agile and spiral models. This model is suited for projects that are small in scale and have already been planned out to a high extent. Another one of the waterfall model’s advantages is that this model is cheaper to implement and all stages are well documented. In regards to my project, I don’t believe the waterfall model is suitable for me. This is because I don’t have a plan set in stone for this project and I plan to adapt and improvise as I develop it. This would mean many alterations would be made along the way, making the waterfall model unsuited.

The spiral model specialises in repeated iterations of processes during development and minimises risk. Therefore, the usage of this model is appropriate where risks are expected and the client wants software releases frequently. With this model, prototype versions of the program are able to be developed in early stages of the model, but this model is generally more expensive than Waterfall or Agile. More documentation is also required for each stage, and that would mean a lot more writing. I don’t think the Spiral model is suitable for my project, because writing lots of documentation sounds like a hassle for me. But I would still choose this model over the Waterfall model, because this model is better suited to adapting to change. 

The Agile model specialises in both flexibility and simplicity, and also utilises iterations during development. After each iteration the software should be improved, making the model ideal for projects which have changes implemented along the way. I believe that the agile model is the most suitable for my project, because it suits the nature of my program. I will not have a plan set in stone at the beginning and instead implement ideas as I go along. The agile model also does not require extensive documentation and instead emphasises on working prototypes of the software, which is beneficial for me since I don’t want to write a lot of documentation, and I prefer more of a practical approach. The agile model also allows for observations and evaluations at the end of each iteration, allowing for effective communication between the developer and the client.




References:
Bass, G., Dennis, S. and Keane, T. (2019). Software Development VCE Units 3 & 4 Student Book. 1st ed. Eleanor Gregory.
